https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5630028/ measured genome-wide patterns of TP53 chromatin binding via ChIP-seq.

TP53 is a DNA binding Transcription Factor (TF); it binds to DNA as a homo-tetramer recognizing two decamers of RRRCWWGYYY (el-Deiry et al. 1992), each decamer is called a “half site” with underlined 4 nucleotides (nt) CWWG as the core, usually one full site consists of two half sites. 

The binding preferences of TP53 are known. Genomic binding is not always followed by transcription changes; p53 exhibits both “default” and “distinct” binding. Since p53 has induced and constitutive functions, and binding may serve to induce transcription, but also to maintain basal transcription levels (Zheltukhin and Chumakov, 2010), p53 occupancy at some of these sites may support the basal expression of the nearby genes.

Since p53 binds to enhancers (Melo et al., 2013), occupancy at some of these sites may exert long distance effect on gene expression.
 
Binding within or nearby target genes involved in cell proliferation and survival enables the p53 tumor suppressor gene to regulate their transcription and cell-cycle progression. Chromatin-binding profiles reveal specific interactions of p53 with promoter regions of nearby target genes, but also with distant locations that harbor characteristics of enhancer domains. Interestingly, the ChIP-seq signals are quantitatively comparable between different experiments. 

The low occupancy peaks are not likely to be ChIP-seq artifacts, as essentially all show increases in TP53 binding upon Nutlin-3 treatment (Supplemental Fig. S5C) and >80% contain known TP53 binding motifs under the peak (Supplemental Table S2 in Supplemental Material). Within this context, peaks associated with genes in the core program display stronger TP53 binding in all cell types, relative to those associated with cell type–specific direct targets (Fig. 4E). This indicates that TP53 can bind to a subset of specific enhancers across vastly different cell types, regardless of potential differences in chromatin landscapes, to activate a core multifunctional program.

Our ChIP-seq data confirm previous studies indicating that TP53 binds to a common set of sites across cell types, regardless of chromatin context, and that most TP53 binding events do not result in transactivation of the nearest gene (Verfaillie et al. 2016; Fischer 2017)

```
ChIP was performed as described before (Galbraith et al. 2013) and described in detail in the Supplemental Methods. Briefly, after
drug or vehicle treatment, cells were cross-linked using 1% formaldehyde, washed twice with cold PBS, lysed in RIPA buffer, and cell lysates sonicated. Following immunoprecipitation with anti-TP53 antibody, immune complexes were washed, bound proteins eluted, and cross-linking reversed prior to DNA purification. Sequencing libraries were prepared using Illumina’s TruSeq ChIP Library Preparation kit, and barcoded libraries sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq2000 instrument.
```


**Data analysis and visualization**
Total number of reads per sample ranged between 4.9*107 and 6.7*107. Quality of the sequenced reads was analyzed using FastQC (version 0.10.1, http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/). Low quality reads were removed (phred < 10, ea-utils_1.1.2, http://code.google.com/p/ea-utils). Read duplication level ranged from 1.8 to 9.2%. Next, reads were mapped to the reference human genome (GRCh37/hg19) using Bowtie2 (bowtie2-2.2.3, --sensitive –-end-to-end) and reads with low mapping quality scores (MAPQ < 10) as well as reads mapped to multiple loci were removed. The Homer suite (version 4.3) (Heinz et al. 2010) was used for identification of peak regions and motif discovery. Peak calling criteria for each cell line were normalized based on the fraction of background sequences. Peaks common in different cell lines were identified by Homer mergePeak tool using 100 bp as offset maximum. IP efficiency factors calculated by Homer findPeaks as a ratio of reads associated with peaks versus background reads varies between 0.03%
(MCF7) and 0.83% (SJSA) in samples treated with DMSO and 1.96% (HCT116) and 6.19% (MCF7) in samples treated with Nutlin. Importantly, virtually all TP53 peaks found in DMSO-treated samples showed increased read density following Nutlin treatment indicating very low presence of non-specific or “phantom” peaks (Jain et al. 2015). Normalized read densities were calculated by Homer (annotatePeaks.pl –size given, default normalization, getDifferentialPeaks). Identification of sequence motifs associated with TP53 binding was performed by findMotifsGenome.pl. The canonical TP53 motif was found in more than 80% of peaks in all three cell lines (see Supplemental Table S2). Distance of peaks from TSS of adjacent genes was measured by bedtools2 (http://bedtools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#, version 2.22.0). The same data processing pipeline was used for analysis of ChIP-seq raw data files obtained from the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) (Consortium 2012) listed in Supplemental Table S3. For peak calling of the H3K4me3 and H3K36me3 ChIP-
seq, as well as the DNaseI-seq we used the setting “–histone style” better reflecting the nature of the signal distribution. To compare TP53 read densities between two different cell lines at individual loci we used MAnorm (Shao et al.2012) with default settings. For visualization of ChIP-seq data, we generated bigwig tracks for genome browsers using deepTools (Ramirez et al. 2016) (version 2.2.2, settings --binSize=1 –extendReads FRAGMENT_LENGTH --minMappingQuality 10 –normalizeUsingRPKM). Read density was displayed at 1 bp
resolution as reads per million of mapped reads per 1 kb (RPM/kb).
